---
layout: news_item
title: 'APBS 1.4.2.1 Released'
date: 2016-01-08 17:14:13 -0800
author: kozlac
version: APBS 1.4.2.1
categories: [release]
---

Dear APBS and PDB2PQR users –

We are pleased to announce the release of APBS 1.4.2.1 which is now available from <http://www.poissonboltzmann.org/docs/downloads/>.  There are several improvements and fixes (outlined below) to this release of the software and we encourage all users to upgrade.

Please see <a href="{{site.baseurl}}/news/APBS_releasehistory/">APBS Release History</a> for the complete release notes.

Thank you for your continued support of APBS and PDB2PQR.

Sincerely,

The APBS/PDB2PQR development team

# APBS 1.4.2.1

## NEW FEATURES
* Poisson-Boltzmann Semi-Anlytical Method (PB-SAM) packaged and built with APBS.
* New Geometric flow API and improvements in speed.
* Support for BinaryDX file format.
* SOR solver added for mg-auto input file option.
* DXMath improvements.
* Test suit improvements:
  * APBS build in Travis-CI
  * Geometric Flow tests added.
  * Protein RNA tests enabled.
  * Intermediate resutls testing.
* Example READMEs onverted to markdown and updated with latest results. 

## BUG FIXES
* OpenMPI (mg-para) functionality restored.
* Fixed parsing PQR files that contained records other than ATOM and HETATM.
* Geometric Flow boundary indexing bug fixed.
* Build fixes:
  * Out of source CMake build are again working.
  * Python library may be built.
  * CentOS 5 binary builds for glibc compatibility.
  * Pull requests merged.
* Removed irrelevant warning messages.

## Notes
The following packages are treated as submodules in APBS:
* Geometric Flow has been moved to it's own <a href="https://github.com/Electrostatics/geoflow_c">repository</a>.
* FETk has been <a href="https://github.com/Electrostatics/FETK">cloned</a> so that we could effect updates.
* PB-SAM Lives <a href="https//github.com/Electrostatics/PB-SAM">here</a>.

Added a <a href="https://gitter.im/Electrostatics/help">chat feature</a> for users. This can also be found from the support tab on <a href="http://poissonboltzmann.org/"></a>.

## KNOWN BUGS
* Travis CI Linux builds are breaking because Geometric Flow relies on C++11 and Travis boxen have an old GCC that does not support C++11. This also and issue for CentOS 5.
* BEM is temporarily disabled due to build issues.
* Geometric Flow build is currently broken on Windows using Visual Studio.
